README.md, before:

## STACSettlers

This file contains a quickstart guide and a small set of sample usages. For a more detailed description of the project and of the Stac rule-based agent see "STACSettlers documentation.pdf" file. This project contains various implementations for the [Strategic Conversation (STAC)] project. It also contains the code (as local dependencies) for the agents developed in the following PhD thesis:
- Mihai Dobre, Low-resource Learning in Complex Games, School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh, 2018.

### INSTALLATION

Just run `make build`. Check the main file for more information


### RUNNING SIMULATIONS

To run an example simulation between 4 Stac agents, build the jar, create a config.txt file with the following contents:

	Games=1
	Log=true
	ChatNegotiation=true
	~
	TradesTest
	Trades=true
	Agent=4,Stac,stac,TRY_N_BEST_BUILD_PLANS:0|FAVOUR_DEV_CARDS:-5

and run the following command:`java -cp STACSettlers-1.0-bin.jar soc.robot.stac.simulation.Simulation <config-file>`. This will run one game between 4 Stac heuristic agents with the best parameters.
The config.txt file contained in the resources package has a set of example agents that can be run in the simulation environment. Note that smartsettlers and the TypedMCTS agents require FullyObservable=true!

#### REPLAY AND STORING GAMEPLAY
To replay the game run the following:`java -cp STACSettlers-1.0-bin.jar soc.client.SOCReplayClient` then click load file and select the log file generated by the simulation game.

The replay client can be used to collect the gameplay (excluding chat negotiations) into a postgresql database. The database schema is included in the database folder. The username, password and url to the database should be included in dbconfig.txt inside the resource folder. For instructions on how to use the replay client for storing the gameplay see the pdf document.
human.sql file is a dump of the database that contains the gameplay from the human corpus. The log files will be released by the STAC project (https://www.irit.fr/STAC/).

#### SERVER AND ONLINE GAMES
Running online games requires a mysql database; see javadocs for soc.server.database.SOCDBHelper.java on how to set up the db. Starting the server can be done via the following command:`java -cp STACSettlers-1.0-bin.jar soc.server.SOCServer -Dstac.robots={number of robots to start} portNumber max_connections dbUser dbPass`

#### HOW TO RUN THE DEEP RL AGENT
Running this agent requires Node.js and the installation of the modules contained in web folder.

(1) Run the server (DRL agent):`<YourPath>/java/web/main$ node runserver.js`
N.B. If you want to change the host and port of the remote server, open the file YourPath>/java/config.txt and edit the variables "TCPServer_*"

(2) Run the client (JSettlers):`<YourPath>/java/$ scripts/run_simulation.sh config-drl.txt`
N.B. If you want to change the host and port of the remote server, edit the host+port in method "getTradeFromServer" of file YourPath>/java/src/soc/server/SOCServer.java and recompile

The output of the server should look like this:

	*TCP Server for JSettlers*
	libraries loaded!
	config file loaded!
	configurations defined!
	brain created!
	Initialised agent!
	Loading policy ../../web/policies//simpleds-policy-0.json
	Network initialised!
	Running in test mode!
	<Press ctrl+c to quit>
	request 100
	request 200
	request 300
	request 400
	request 500
	request 600
	request 700
	...

### SCRIPTS
The scripts folder contains a set of example scripts for the most common usages. Note that the jar must be renamed to STACSettlers.jar from STACSettlers-1.0-bin.jar before running the scripts.

### COPYRIGHT NOTICE

STACSettlers and Jsettlers are licensed under GNU General Public License version 3.
Below is the copyright notice for the STACSettlers part of the code and the license is included in LICENSE.txt.
The license for JSettlers project is included in src/resources/LICENSE.txt.
JavaBayes, mdp-library and weka jars contained in lib folder are also licensed under GPL v3.
MCTS-1.0 (https://github.com/sorinMD/MCTS) and DeepCatan-0.0.1 (https://github.com/sorinMD/deepCatan) jars are licensed under the MIT license.

    STACSettlers - An extension to the JSettlers framework
    Copyright (C) 2017  STAC

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


[Strategic Conversation (STAC)]: https://www.irit.fr/STAC/index.html

Commit message:

Working with Stac DB: Readme, SOCReplayClient jdocs + DB setup info; StacDBReplayClient add field label in start dialog, to clarify how to proceed; SOCReplayClient file open dialog title add hint logs_server folder, fix NullPointerException if click Cancel

README.md, after:

## STACSettlers

This file contains a quickstart guide and a small set of sample usages. For a more detailed description of the project and of the Stac rule-based agent see "STACSettlers documentation.pdf" file. This project contains various implementations for the [Strategic Conversation (STAC)] project. It also contains the code (as local dependencies) for the agents developed in the following PhD thesis:
- Mihai Dobre, Low-resource Learning in Complex Games, School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh, 2018.

### INSTALLATION

Just run `make build`. Check the main file for more information


### RUNNING SIMULATIONS

To run an example simulation between 4 Stac agents, build the jar, create a config.txt file with the following contents:

	Games=1
	Log=true
	ChatNegotiation=true
	~
	TradesTest
	Trades=true
	Agent=4,Stac,stac,TRY_N_BEST_BUILD_PLANS:0|FAVOUR_DEV_CARDS:-5

and run the following command:`java -cp STACSettlers-1.0-bin.jar soc.robot.stac.simulation.Simulation <config-file>`. This will run one game between 4 Stac heuristic agents with the best parameters.
The config.txt file contained in the resources package has a set of example agents that can be run in the simulation environment. Note that smartsettlers and the TypedMCTS agents require FullyObservable=true!

#### REPLAY AND STORING GAMEPLAY
To replay a simulation or any other game recorded to soclog files, run the following:`java -cp STACSettlers-1.0-bin.jar soc.client.SOCReplayClient` then click load file and select the log file under `logs_server` generated by the game.

The replay client can be used to collect the gameplay (excluding chat negotiations) into a postgresql database. The database schema is included in the `database` folder. (Per-game tables are created as needed by the replay client.) The username, password and url to the database should be included in `dbconfig.txt` inside the `src/main/java/resources` folder. For instructions on how to use the replay client for storing the gameplay, see the pdf document and the `SOCReplayClient` class javadoc.

human.sql file is a dump of the database that contains the gameplay from the human corpus. The log files will be released by the STAC project (https://www.irit.fr/STAC/).

#### SERVER AND ONLINE GAMES
Running online games requires a mysql database; see javadocs for soc.server.database.SOCDBHelper.java on how to set up the db. Starting the server can be done via the following command:`java -cp STACSettlers-1.0-bin.jar soc.server.SOCServer -Dstac.robots={number of robots to start} portNumber max_connections dbUser dbPass`

#### HOW TO RUN THE DEEP RL AGENT
Running this agent requires Node.js and the installation of the modules contained in web folder.

(1) Run the server (DRL agent):`<YourPath>/java/web/main$ node runserver.js`
N.B. If you want to change the host and port of the remote server, open the file YourPath>/java/config.txt and edit the variables "TCPServer_*"

(2) Run the client (JSettlers):`<YourPath>/java/$ scripts/run_simulation.sh config-drl.txt`
N.B. If you want to change the host and port of the remote server, edit the host+port in method "getTradeFromServer" of file YourPath>/java/src/soc/server/SOCServer.java and recompile

The output of the server should look like this:

	*TCP Server for JSettlers*
	libraries loaded!
	config file loaded!
	configurations defined!
	brain created!
	Initialised agent!
	Loading policy ../../web/policies//simpleds-policy-0.json
	Network initialised!
	Running in test mode!
	<Press ctrl+c to quit>
	request 100
	request 200
	request 300
	request 400
	request 500
	request 600
	request 700
	...

### SCRIPTS
The scripts folder contains a set of example scripts for the most common usages. Note that the jar must be renamed to STACSettlers.jar from STACSettlers-1.0-bin.jar before running the scripts.

### COPYRIGHT NOTICE

STACSettlers and Jsettlers are licensed under GNU General Public License version 3.
Below is the copyright notice for the STACSettlers part of the code and the license is included in LICENSE.txt.
The license for JSettlers project is included in src/resources/LICENSE.txt.
JavaBayes, mdp-library and weka jars contained in lib folder are also licensed under GPL v3.
MCTS-1.0 (https://github.com/sorinMD/MCTS) and DeepCatan-0.0.1 (https://github.com/sorinMD/deepCatan) jars are licensed under the MIT license.

    STACSettlers - An extension to the JSettlers framework
    Copyright (C) 2017  STAC

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


[Strategic Conversation (STAC)]: https://www.irit.fr/STAC/index.html
